docs/src/docs/arc42/building-block-view/level-2.adoc, before:

= Level 2

== IRS controller

The IRS REST controller is used to provide a RESTful web service.

=== Component diagram

[plantuml, target=level-2-controller, format=svg]
....
include::../../../uml-diagrams/building-block-view/level-2-int.puml[]
....

=== Component description

|===
|Components |Description

|IrsController
|Application REST controller.

|IrsItemGraphQueryService
|Service for retrieving item graph.

|JobOrchestrator
|Orchestrator service for recursive MultiTransferJobs that potentially comprise multiple transfers.

|JobStore
|Spring configuration for job-related beans.

|BlobstorePersistence
|Interface for storing data blobs.
|===


== RecursiveJobHandler

The *RecursiveJobHandler* component provide the logic to build jobs recursively to retrieve items over the complete C-X network and assembles the partial results into a single item graph result.

=== Component diagram

[plantuml, target=level-2-jobhandler, format=svg]
....
include::../../../uml-diagrams/building-block-view/level-2-int-recursive-job-handler.puml[]
....


=== Component description

|===
|Components |Description

|AASRecursiveJobHandler
|Recursive job handler for AAS data

|TreeRecursiveLogic
|Retrieves item graphs from potentially multiple calls to IRS API behind multiple EDC Providers, and assembles their outputs into one overall item graph.

|ItemTreesAssembler
|Assembles multiple partial item graphs into one overall item graph.

|BlobPersistence
|Interface for storing data blobs.
|===


== TransferProcessManagement

The TransferProcessManager creates executions and provides them to the executor service. Each execution contains HTTP requests to the asset administration shell registry and to the submodel interface.

=== Component diagram
[plantuml, target=level-2-transfer-process-management, format=svg]
....
include::../../../uml-diagrams/building-block-view/level-2-int-transfer-process-management.puml[]
....

=== Component description

|===
|Components |Description

|TransferProcessManager
|The TransferProcessManager manages the requests to the EDC and DigitalTwinRegistry.

|DigitalTwinRegistryFacade
|The DigitalTwinRegistryFacade calls the DigitalTwinRegistry to retrieve data form the AAS registry and transforms the response to internal data models.

|SubmodelFacade
|The SubmodelFacade handles EDC contract negotiations and is responsible for the EDC dataplane requests to retrieve data from the submodel servers.

|BlobStore
|The BlobStore is the database where the relationships and tombstones are stored for a requested item.

|DigitalTwinRegistry
|The DigitalTwinRegistry is the central database of registered assets. In a decentralized network, the registry is no longer central, but every provider has its own registry.

|ExecutorService
|The ExecutorService enables the simultaneous execution of requests of transfer processes.
|===

== ESS controller

The ESS REST controller is used to provide a RESTful web service to related Environmental and Social Standards functionalities.

=== Component diagram

[plantuml, target=level-2-ess-controller, format=svg]
....
include::../../../uml-diagrams/building-block-view/level-2-int-ess.puml[]
....

=== Component description

|===
|Components |Description

|EssService
|Service contains business logic for investigation if part is inside supply chain.

|IrsItemGraphQueryService
|Service for retrieving item graph.

|BpnInvestigationJobCache
|Interface for storing incident data blobs.

|EssRecursiveNotificationHandler
|Business logic handling recursive investigation and results calculation. Responsible for sending and receiving EDC notifications.
|===

Commit message:

chore(buildingblock):[#287] add policy store to 2 level

docs/src/docs/arc42/building-block-view/level-2.adoc, after:

= Level 2

== IRS controller

The IRS REST controller is used to provide a RESTful web service.

=== Component diagram

[plantuml, target=level-2-controller, format=svg]
....
include::../../../uml-diagrams/building-block-view/level-2-int.puml[]
....

=== Component description

|===
|Components |Description

|IrsController
|Application REST controller.

|IrsItemGraphQueryService
|Service for retrieving item graph.

|JobOrchestrator
|Orchestrator service for recursive MultiTransferJobs that potentially comprise multiple transfers.

|JobStore
|Spring configuration for job-related beans.

|BlobstorePersistence
|Interface for storing data blobs.

|PolicyStore
|The *PolicyStore* provides a REST Interface for getting, adding and deleting accepted IRS EDC policies. These policies will be used to validate usage policies of EDC contract offers.

|===


== RecursiveJobHandler

The *RecursiveJobHandler* component provide the logic to build jobs recursively to retrieve items over the complete C-X network and assembles the partial results into a single item graph result.

=== Component diagram

[plantuml, target=level-2-jobhandler, format=svg]
....
include::../../../uml-diagrams/building-block-view/level-2-int-recursive-job-handler.puml[]
....


=== Component description

|===
|Components |Description

|AASRecursiveJobHandler
|Recursive job handler for AAS data

|TreeRecursiveLogic
|Retrieves item graphs from potentially multiple calls to IRS API behind multiple EDC Providers, and assembles their outputs into one overall item graph.

|ItemTreesAssembler
|Assembles multiple partial item graphs into one overall item graph.

|BlobPersistence
|Interface for storing data blobs.
|===


== TransferProcessManagement

The TransferProcessManager creates executions and provides them to the executor service. Each execution contains HTTP requests to the asset administration shell registry and to the submodel interface.

=== Component diagram
[plantuml, target=level-2-transfer-process-management, format=svg]
....
include::../../../uml-diagrams/building-block-view/level-2-int-transfer-process-management.puml[]
....

=== Component description

|===
|Components |Description

|TransferProcessManager
|The TransferProcessManager manages the requests to the EDC and DigitalTwinRegistry.

|DigitalTwinRegistryFacade
|The DigitalTwinRegistryFacade calls the DigitalTwinRegistry to retrieve data form the AAS registry and transforms the response to internal data models.

|SubmodelFacade
|The SubmodelFacade handles EDC contract negotiations and is responsible for the EDC dataplane requests to retrieve data from the submodel servers.

|BlobStore
|The BlobStore is the database where the relationships and tombstones are stored for a requested item.

|DigitalTwinRegistry
|The DigitalTwinRegistry is the central database of registered assets. In a decentralized network, the registry is no longer central, but every provider has its own registry.

|ExecutorService
|The ExecutorService enables the simultaneous execution of requests of transfer processes.
|===

== ESS controller

The ESS REST controller is used to provide a RESTful web service to related Environmental and Social Standards functionalities.

=== Component diagram

[plantuml, target=level-2-ess-controller, format=svg]
....
include::../../../uml-diagrams/building-block-view/level-2-int-ess.puml[]
....

=== Component description

|===
|Components |Description

|EssService
|Service contains business logic for investigation if part is inside supply chain.

|IrsItemGraphQueryService
|Service for retrieving item graph.

|BpnInvestigationJobCache
|Interface for storing incident data blobs.

|EssRecursiveNotificationHandler
|Business logic handling recursive investigation and results calculation. Responsible for sending and receiving EDC notifications.
|===
