docs/src/docs/arc42/cross-cutting/safety-security.adoc, before:

= Safety and security concepts

== Authentication / Authorization
=== IRS API
The IRS is secured using OAuth2.0 / Open ID Connect. Every request to the IRS API requires a valid bearer token.
JWT token should also contain two fields:

- `view_irs` role inside `resource_access` claim,
- BPN claim which is equal to the configuration value from `API_ALLOWED_BPN` property

=== IRS as DTR client
The IRS acts as a client for the Digital Twin Registry (DTR), which is also secured using OAuth2.0 / Open ID Connect. The IRS uses client credentials to authenticate requests to the DTR. Due to this, the IRS account needs to have access to every item in the DTR, unrelated to the permissions of the account calling the IRS API.

=== IRS as decentralized DTR client
In a decentralized network, IRS uses the EDC client to access the provider DTR. This way, no authentication, other than the EDC contract negotiation, is needed to access the DTR.

=== IRS as EDC client
The IRS accesses the Catena-X network via the EDC consumer connector. This component requires authentication via a Verifiable Credential (VC), which is provided to the EDC via the Managed Identity Wallet.

The VC identifies and authenticates the EDC and is used to acquire access permissions for the data transferred via EDC.

== Credentials
Credentials must never be stored in Git!

Commit message:

chore(docs):[TRI-1474] Add disclaimer about missing role/right support to docs

docs/src/docs/arc42/cross-cutting/safety-security.adoc, after:

= Safety and security concepts

== Authentication / Authorization
=== IRS API
The IRS is secured using OAuth2.0 / Open ID Connect. Every request to the IRS API requires a valid bearer token.
JWT token should also contain two fields:

- `view_irs` role inside `resource_access` claim,
- BPN claim which is equal to the configuration value from `API_ALLOWED_BPN` property

*Note: IRS currently does not support any other roles or rights. As long as you provide a valid token with the content listed above, you can access the IRS API to view and control all jobs on the IRS instance.*

=== IRS as DTR client
The IRS acts as a client for the Digital Twin Registry (DTR), which is also secured using OAuth2.0 / Open ID Connect. The IRS uses client credentials to authenticate requests to the DTR. Due to this, the IRS account needs to have access to every item in the DTR, unrelated to the permissions of the account calling the IRS API.

=== IRS as decentralized DTR client
In a decentralized network, IRS uses the EDC client to access the provider DTR. This way, no authentication, other than the EDC contract negotiation, is needed to access the DTR.

=== IRS as EDC client
The IRS accesses the Catena-X network via the EDC consumer connector. This component requires authentication via a Verifiable Credential (VC), which is provided to the EDC via the Managed Identity Wallet.

The VC identifies and authenticates the EDC and is used to acquire access permissions for the data transferred via EDC.

== Credentials
Credentials must never be stored in Git!
