docs/src/docs/arc42/cross-cutting/testing.adoc, before:

= Testing concepts

== Umbrella

The https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractus-x-umbrella[umbrella chart] provides a pre-configured catena-x network which includes all necessary components for the IRS to work.

For IRS this includes:

* Central Idp
* Edc Provider
** Digital Twin Registry
** Submodel Backend
** EDC
** Vault
* EDC Consumer
** EDC
** Vault
* Discovery Service
* EDC Discovery *
* IATP *
* BDRS
* Semantic Hub

Services marked with * are currently mocked, since there is no FOSS-Component available for IATP/DIM and the configuration and data seeding for EDC Discovery is not possible at the moment.

These Service are used together with the IRS Helm Chart to provide a E2E Testing Infrastructure which can be spun up directly in a GitHub Workflow to execute E2E Tests against.

The action https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/item-relationship-service/blob/main/.github/actions/setup-umbrella-env/action.yaml creates this environment and seeds Testdata for IRS use-cases directly to the EDC Provider components.
After Umbrella setup and seeding, the IRS docker image is built based on the branch, the workflow is run from, and the IRS helm chart from the same branch is installed.
This ensures, that features on branches can be tested as well.

The workflows https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/item-relationship-service/blob/main/.github/workflows/tavern-UMBRELLA.yml[tavern-UMBRELLA.yaml] and https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/item-relationship-service/blob/main/.github/workflows/cucumber-integration-test-UMBRELLA.yaml[cucumber-integration-test-UMBRELLA.yaml] use the action to execute the tests.
Test results are automatically added to the workflow summary and in case of the cucumber tests uploaded to the https://reports.cucumber.io/report-collections/b82bcadd-0d19-41c4-ae1a-c623e259c36f[IRS Cucumber Report]

Due to limitations in the IATP mock, the only way of using multiple BPNs in the test data is to spin up multiple EDC provider instances.
However, the chart is used inside GitHub Workflows, so compute resources are limited.
For this reason, the IRS test data was changed to include only data pointing to a single BPN.

For instructions on how to use the Umbrella Chart locally, see https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/item-relationship-service/blob/main/INSTALL.md#local-installation-with-umbrella[INSTALL.md]

Commit message:

chore(docs):[#408] add section on how to test a feature

docs/src/docs/arc42/cross-cutting/testing.adoc, after:

= Testing concepts

== How to test a feature

Features in IRS are tested by unit, integration and end-to-end tests.
We maintain a unit and integration tests coverage of at lease 80% which has to be kept up for new features.

To test integration with the whole IRS flow, we provide https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/item-relationship-service/blob/main/irs-api/src/test/java/org/eclipse/tractusx/irs/IrsWireMockIntegrationTest.java[Wiremock integration tests] where all third-party services are mocked.
This test can be extended with your desired configuration to maintain full coverage.

End-to-end tests are conducted via https://taverntesting.github.io/[Tavern] and https://cucumber.io/[Cucumber].

Cucumber feature files are located in https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/item-relationship-service/tree/main/irs-cucumber-tests/src/test/resources/org/eclipse/tractusx/irs/cucumber/features[irs-cucumber-tests/src/test/resources/org/eclipse/tractusx/irs/cucumber/features] and executed with a GitHub workflow https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/item-relationship-service/blob/main/.github/workflows/cucumber-integration-test-UMBRELLA.yaml[cucumber-integration-test-UMBRELLA.yaml].

Tavern Tests are located in https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/item-relationship-service/tree/main/local/testing/api-tests[local/testing/api-tests] and executed with a GitHub workflow https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/item-relationship-service/blob/main/.github/workflows/tavern-UMBRELLA.yml[tavern-UMBRELLA.yml].

== Umbrella

The https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractus-x-umbrella[umbrella chart] provides a pre-configured catena-x network which includes all necessary components for the IRS to work.

For IRS this includes:

* Central Idp
* Edc Provider
** Digital Twin Registry
** Submodel Backend
** EDC
** Vault
* EDC Consumer
** EDC
** Vault
* Discovery Service
* EDC Discovery *
* IATP *
* BDRS
* Semantic Hub

Services marked with * are currently mocked, since there is no FOSS-Component available for IATP/DIM and the configuration and data seeding for EDC Discovery is not possible at the moment.

These Service are used together with the IRS Helm Chart to provide a E2E Testing Infrastructure which can be spun up directly in a GitHub Workflow to execute E2E Tests against.

The action https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/item-relationship-service/blob/main/.github/actions/setup-umbrella-env/action.yaml creates this environment and seeds Testdata for IRS use-cases directly to the EDC Provider components.
After Umbrella setup and seeding, the IRS docker image is built based on the branch, the workflow is run from, and the IRS helm chart from the same branch is installed.
This ensures, that features on branches can be tested as well.

The workflows https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/item-relationship-service/blob/main/.github/workflows/tavern-UMBRELLA.yml[tavern-UMBRELLA.yaml] and https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/item-relationship-service/blob/main/.github/workflows/cucumber-integration-test-UMBRELLA.yaml[cucumber-integration-test-UMBRELLA.yaml] use the action to execute the tests.
Test results are automatically added to the workflow summary and in case of the cucumber tests uploaded to the https://reports.cucumber.io/report-collections/b82bcadd-0d19-41c4-ae1a-c623e259c36f[IRS Cucumber Report]

Due to limitations in the IATP mock, the only way of using multiple BPNs in the test data is to spin up multiple EDC provider instances.
However, the chart is used inside GitHub Workflows, so compute resources are limited.
For this reason, the IRS test data was changed to include only data pointing to a single BPN.

For instructions on how to use the Umbrella Chart locally, see https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/item-relationship-service/blob/main/INSTALL.md#local-installation-with-umbrella[INSTALL.md]
