docs/src/docs/arc42/cross-cutting/under-the-hood.adoc, before:

= "Under-the-hood" concepts

== Persistence
The IRS stores two types of data in a persistent way:

- Job metadata
- Job payloads, e.g. AAS shells or submodel data

All of this is data is stored in an object store. The currently used implementation is Minio (Amazon S3 compatible).
This reduces the complexity in storing and retrieving data. There also is no predefined model for the data, every document can be stored as it is.
The downside of this approach is lack of query functionality, as we can only search through the keys of the entries but not based on the value data.
In the future, another approach or an additional way to to index the data might be required.

To let the data survive system restarts, Minio needs to use a persistent volume for the data storage. A default configuration for this is provided in the Helm charts.

== Transaction handling
There currently is no transaction management in the IRS.

== Session handling
There is no session handling in the IRS, access is solely based on bearer tokens, the API is stateless.

== Communication and integration
All interfaces to other systems are using RESTful calls over HTTP(S). Where central authentication is required, a common Keycloak instance is used.

For outgoing calls, the Spring RestTemplate mechanism is used and separate RestTemplates are created for the different ways of authentication.

For incoming calls, we utilize the Spring REST Controller mechanism, annotating the interfaces accordingly and also documenting the endpoints using OpenAPI annotations.

== Exception and error handling
There are two types of potential errors in the IRS:

=== Technical errors
Technical errors occur when there is a problem with the application itself, its configuration or directly connected infrastructure, e.g. the Minio persistence. Usually, the application cannot solve these problems by itself and requires some external support (manual work or automated recovery mechanisms, e.g. Kubernetes liveness probes).

These errors are printed mainly to the application log and are relevant for the healthchecks.

=== Functional errors
Functional errors occur when there is a problem with the data that is being processed or external systems are unavailable and data cannot be sent / fetched as required for the process. While the system might not be able to provide the required function at that moment, it may work with a different dataset or as soon as the external systems recover.

These errors are reported in the Job response and do not directly affect application health.

=== Rules for exception handling
==== Throw or log, don't do both
When catching an exception, either log the exception and handle the problem or rethrow it, so it can be handled at a higher level of the code. By doing both, an exception might be written to the log multiple times, which can be confusing.

==== Write own base exceptions for (internal) interfaces
By defining a common (checked) base exception for an interface, the caller is forced to handle potential errors, but can keep the logic simple. On the other hand, you still have the possibility to derive various, meaningful exceptions for different error cases, which can then be thrown via the API.

Of course, when using only RuntimeExceptions, this is not necessary - but those can be overlooked quite easily, so be careful there.

==== Central fallback exception handler
There will always be some exception that cannot be handled inside of the code correctly - or it may just have been unforeseen. A central fallback exception handler is required so all problems are visible in the log and the API always returns meaningful responses. In some cases, this is as simple as a HTTP 500.

==== Dont expose too much exception details over API
It's good to inform the user, why their request did not work, but only if they can do something about it (HTTP 4xx). So in case of application problems, you should not expose details of the problem to the caller. This way, we avoid opening potential attack vectors.

== Parallelization and threading
The heart of the IRS is the parallel execution of planned jobs. As almost each job requires multiple calls to various endpoints, those are done in parallel as well to reduce the total execution time for each job.

Tasks execution is orchestrated by the JobOrchestrator class. It utilizes a central ExecutorService, which manages the number of threads and schedules new Task as they come in.



== Plausibility checks and validation
Data validation happens at two points:

- IRS API: the data sent by the client is validated to match the model defined in the IRS. If the validation fails, the IRS sends a HTTP 400 response and indicates the problem to the caller.
- Submodel payload: each time a submodel payload is requested from via EDC, the data is validated against the model defined in the SemanticHub for the matching aspect type.
- EDC Contract Offer Policy: each time IRS consumes data over the EDC, the policies of the offered contract will be validated. IDs of so-called "Rahmenverträgen" or Framework-Agreements can be added to the IRS Policy Store to be accepted by the IRS. If a Contract Offer does not match any of the IDs store in Policy Store, the contract offer will be declined and no data will be consumed.

== Caching

The IRS caches data provided externally to avoid unnecessary requests and reduce execution time.

Caching is implemented for the following services:

=== BPDM

Whenever a BPN is resolved via BPDM, the partner name is cached on IRS side, as this data does not change.

=== Semantics Hub

Whenever a semantic model schema is requested from the Semantic Hub, it is stored locally until the cache is evicted (configurable). The IRS can preload configured schema models on startup to reduce on demand call times.

Additionally, models can be deployed with the system as a backup to the real Semantic Hub service.

Commit message:

docs(policy-store): [TRI-1595] [TRACE-X][POLICY_STORE][EXTENDED] Documentation of extended policy store feature

docs/src/docs/arc42/cross-cutting/under-the-hood.adoc, after:

= "Under-the-hood" concepts

== Persistence
The IRS stores two types of data in a persistent way:

- Job metadata
- Job payloads, e.g. AAS shells or submodel data

All of this is data is stored in an object store. The currently used implementation is Minio (Amazon S3 compatible).
This reduces the complexity in storing and retrieving data. There also is no predefined model for the data, every document can be stored as it is.
The downside of this approach is lack of query functionality, as we can only search through the keys of the entries but not based on the value data.
In the future, another approach or an additional way to to index the data might be required.

To let the data survive system restarts, Minio needs to use a persistent volume for the data storage. A default configuration for this is provided in the Helm charts.

== Transaction handling
There currently is no transaction management in the IRS.

== Session handling
There is no session handling in the IRS, access is solely based on bearer tokens, the API is stateless.

== Communication and integration
All interfaces to other systems are using RESTful calls over HTTP(S). Where central authentication is required, a common Keycloak instance is used.

For outgoing calls, the Spring RestTemplate mechanism is used and separate RestTemplates are created for the different ways of authentication.

For incoming calls, we utilize the Spring REST Controller mechanism, annotating the interfaces accordingly and also documenting the endpoints using OpenAPI annotations.

== Exception and error handling
There are two types of potential errors in the IRS:

=== Technical errors
Technical errors occur when there is a problem with the application itself, its configuration or directly connected infrastructure, e.g. the Minio persistence. Usually, the application cannot solve these problems by itself and requires some external support (manual work or automated recovery mechanisms, e.g. Kubernetes liveness probes).

These errors are printed mainly to the application log and are relevant for the healthchecks.

=== Functional errors
Functional errors occur when there is a problem with the data that is being processed or external systems are unavailable and data cannot be sent / fetched as required for the process. While the system might not be able to provide the required function at that moment, it may work with a different dataset or as soon as the external systems recover.

These errors are reported in the Job response and do not directly affect application health.

=== Rules for exception handling
==== Throw or log, don't do both
When catching an exception, either log the exception and handle the problem or rethrow it, so it can be handled at a higher level of the code. By doing both, an exception might be written to the log multiple times, which can be confusing.

==== Write own base exceptions for (internal) interfaces
By defining a common (checked) base exception for an interface, the caller is forced to handle potential errors, but can keep the logic simple. On the other hand, you still have the possibility to derive various, meaningful exceptions for different error cases, which can then be thrown via the API.

Of course, when using only RuntimeExceptions, this is not necessary - but those can be overlooked quite easily, so be careful there.

==== Central fallback exception handler
There will always be some exception that cannot be handled inside of the code correctly - or it may just have been unforeseen. A central fallback exception handler is required so all problems are visible in the log and the API always returns meaningful responses. In some cases, this is as simple as a HTTP 500.

==== Dont expose too much exception details over API
It's good to inform the user, why their request did not work, but only if they can do something about it (HTTP 4xx). So in case of application problems, you should not expose details of the problem to the caller. This way, we avoid opening potential attack vectors.

== Parallelization and threading
The heart of the IRS is the parallel execution of planned jobs. As almost each job requires multiple calls to various endpoints, those are done in parallel as well to reduce the total execution time for each job.

Tasks execution is orchestrated by the JobOrchestrator class. It utilizes a central ExecutorService, which manages the number of threads and schedules new Task as they come in.



== Plausibility checks and validation
Data validation happens at two points:

- IRS API: the data sent by the client is validated to match the model defined in the IRS. If the validation fails, the IRS sends a HTTP 400 response and indicates the problem to the caller.
- Submodel payload: each time a submodel payload is requested from via EDC, the data is validated against the model defined in the SemanticHub for the matching aspect type.
- EDC Contract Offer Policy: each time IRS consumes data over the EDC, the policies of the offered contract will be validated. IDs of so-called "Rahmenverträgen" or Framework-Agreements can be added to the IRS Policy Store to be accepted by the IRS. If a Contract Offer does not match any of the IDs store in Policy Store, the contract offer will be declined and no data will be consumed.

== Policy Store

The IRS gives its users the ability to manage, create and delete complex policies containing permissions and constraints in order to obtain the most precise control over access and use of data received from the edc provider. Policies stored in Policy Store will serve us input with allowed restriction and will be checked against every item from EDC Catalog.

The structure of Policy that could be stored in storage can be easy view by using Policy Store endpoints in published API documentation. Each policy may contain more than one permission, which in turn consists of constraints linked together by AND or OR relationships. This model provides full flexibility and control over stored access and use policies.

== Caching

The IRS caches data provided externally to avoid unnecessary requests and reduce execution time.

Caching is implemented for the following services:

=== BPDM

Whenever a BPN is resolved via BPDM, the partner name is cached on IRS side, as this data does not change.

=== Semantics Hub

Whenever a semantic model schema is requested from the Semantic Hub, it is stored locally until the cache is evicted (configurable). The IRS can preload configured schema models on startup to reduce on demand call times.

Additionally, models can be deployed with the system as a backup to the real Semantic Hub service.
