docs/src/docs/arc42/glossary.adoc, before:

= Glossary

|===
|Term |Description

|AAS | Asset Administration Shell (Industry 4.0)
|Aspect servers (submodel endpoints) | Companies participating in the interorganizational data exchange provides their data over aspect servers. The so called "submodel-descriptors" in the AAS shells are pointing to these AspectServers which provide the data-assets of the participating these companies in Catena-X.
|Bill of Materials (BoM) | A Bill of Materials is a comprehensive list of materials, components, sub-assemblies, and the quantities of each needed to manufacture or build a product. It serves as a structured document that provides information about the raw materials, parts, and components required for the production process.
|BPN | Business Partner Number
|Data Space|Data Spaces are the key concept for a large-scale, cross-border data economy. This is also the vision of the Gaia-X initiative for a data infrastructure in Europe. The International Data Space Association (IDSA) contributes significantly to this with the architectural model, interfaces, and standards.
|DT | Digital Twin
|DTR | Digital Twin Registry. The Digital Twin Registry is a registry which lists all digital twins and references their aspects including information about the underlying asset, asset manufacturer, and access options (e.g. aspect endpoints).
|Eclipse Dataspace Connector (EDC) | The Eclipse Data Space Connector (EDC) is a standard and policy-compliant connector that can be used within the scope of Catena-X, but also more generally as a connector for Data Spaces. It is split up into Control-Plane and Data-Plane, whereas the Control-Plane functions as administration layer and has responsibility of resource management, contract negotiation and administer data transfer. The Data-Plane does the heavy lifting of transferring and receiving data streams. For more information see:
https://github.com/eclipse-edc/Connector[EDC Connector] , https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc[Tractus-X EDC (Eclipse Dataspace Connector)]
|Edge | see Traversal Aspect
|IRS | Item Relationship Service
|Item Graph |The result returned via the IRS. This corresponds to a tree structure in which each node represents a part of a virtual asset.
|Managed Identity Wallet (MIW)
| The Managed Identity Wallets (MIW) service implements the Self-Sovereign-Identity (SSI) readiness by providing a wallet hosting platform including a decentralized identifier (DID) resolver, service endpoints and the company wallets itself.
For more information see:
https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/managed-identity-wallet[eclipse-tractusx/managed-identity-wallet] , https://github.com/catenax-ng/tx-managed-identity-wallets[catenax-ng/tx-managed-identity-wallets]
|MTPDC | Formerly known Service Name: Multi Tier Parts Data Chain
|PolicyStore
| The Policy Store is an IRS component which provides an interface for getting, adding and deleting accepted IRS EDC policies. These policies will be used to validate EDC contract offers. EDC contract offers must include permissions that are equal to permission defined by an admin user in order to be allowed to use in IRS use cases.
For more information see:
https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/ssi-docu/blob/main/docs/architecture/cx-3-2/edc/policy.definitions.md#0-introduction[Policy specification for Catena-X verifiable credentials]
|PRS | Formerly known Service Name: Parts Relationship Service
|Self-Sovereign Identity (SSI)
| For more information see: https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/ssi-docu/tree/main/docs/architecture/cx-3-2[ssi-docu]
|Traversal Aspect |aka Edge: Aspect which the IRS uses for traversal through the data chain. Identified by a parent-child or a child-parent relationship.

Samples: SingleLevelBomAsPlanned, SingleLevelBomAsBuilt and SingleLevelUsageAsBuilt
|Verifiable Credential (VC)
| For more information see: https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/ssi-docu/tree/main/docs/architecture/cx-3-2/3.%20Verifiable%20Credentials[Verifiable Credentials]
|===

Commit message:

feat(impl):[#395] Add Contract Item and Contract Offer to glossary

docs/src/docs/arc42/glossary.adoc, after:

= Glossary

|===
|Term |Description

|AAS | Asset Administration Shell (Industry 4.0)
|Aspect servers (submodel endpoints) | Companies participating in the interorganizational data exchange provides their data over aspect servers. The so called "submodel-descriptors" in the AAS shells are pointing to these AspectServers which provide the data-assets of the participating these companies in Catena-X.
|Bill of Materials (BoM) | A Bill of Materials is a comprehensive list of materials, components, sub-assemblies, and the quantities of each needed to manufacture or build a product. It serves as a structured document that provides information about the raw materials, parts, and components required for the production process.
|BPN | Business Partner Number
|CatalogItem| A "CatalogItem" from EDC is a synonym for "Contract Offer".
|Contract Offer| A "Contract Offer" is a synonym for "CatalogItem" from EDC.
|Data Space|Data Spaces are the key concept for a large-scale, cross-border data economy. This is also the vision of the Gaia-X initiative for a data infrastructure in Europe. The International Data Space Association (IDSA) contributes significantly to this with the architectural model, interfaces, and standards.
|DT | Digital Twin
|DTR | Digital Twin Registry. The Digital Twin Registry is a registry which lists all digital twins and references their aspects including information about the underlying asset, asset manufacturer, and access options (e.g. aspect endpoints).
|Eclipse Dataspace Connector (EDC) | The Eclipse Data Space Connector (EDC) is a standard and policy-compliant connector that can be used within the scope of Catena-X, but also more generally as a connector for Data Spaces. It is split up into Control-Plane and Data-Plane, whereas the Control-Plane functions as administration layer and has responsibility of resource management, contract negotiation and administer data transfer. The Data-Plane does the heavy lifting of transferring and receiving data streams. For more information see:
https://github.com/eclipse-edc/Connector[EDC Connector] , https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc[Tractus-X EDC (Eclipse Dataspace Connector)]
|Edge | see Traversal Aspect
|IRS | Item Relationship Service
|Item Graph |The result returned via the IRS. This corresponds to a tree structure in which each node represents a part of a virtual asset.
|Managed Identity Wallet (MIW)
| The Managed Identity Wallets (MIW) service implements the Self-Sovereign-Identity (SSI) readiness by providing a wallet hosting platform including a decentralized identifier (DID) resolver, service endpoints and the company wallets itself.
For more information see:
https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/managed-identity-wallet[eclipse-tractusx/managed-identity-wallet] , https://github.com/catenax-ng/tx-managed-identity-wallets[catenax-ng/tx-managed-identity-wallets]
|MTPDC | Formerly known Service Name: Multi Tier Parts Data Chain
|PolicyStore
| The Policy Store is an IRS component which provides an interface for getting, adding and deleting accepted IRS EDC policies. These policies will be used to validate EDC contract offers. EDC contract offers must include permissions that are equal to permission defined by an admin user in order to be allowed to use in IRS use cases.
For more information see:
https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/ssi-docu/blob/main/docs/architecture/cx-3-2/edc/policy.definitions.md#0-introduction[Policy specification for Catena-X verifiable credentials]
|PRS | Formerly known Service Name: Parts Relationship Service
|Self-Sovereign Identity (SSI)
| For more information see: https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/ssi-docu/tree/main/docs/architecture/cx-3-2[ssi-docu]
|Traversal Aspect |aka Edge: Aspect which the IRS uses for traversal through the data chain. Identified by a parent-child or a child-parent relationship.

Samples: SingleLevelBomAsPlanned, SingleLevelBomAsBuilt and SingleLevelUsageAsBuilt
|Verifiable Credential (VC)
| For more information see: https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/ssi-docu/tree/main/docs/architecture/cx-3-2/3.%20Verifiable%20Credentials[Verifiable Credentials]
|===
